UNSTEADY AERODYNAMICS VALIDATION:

INTRODUCTION

Three simple models have been developed to test and validate the
unsteady aerodynamics based on the state space representation of 
the Theodorsen theory.

The three models are pretty much the same and just the position
of the airfoil axis of rotation changes. 

MODEL DESCRIPTION

The models have two nodes:

- the first node (node 1) is clamped to the ground and an external force 
and an external couple are applied to the node. Since the node is 
clamped its resulting movement is null.

- the second node (node 2) is forced to move with respect to the 
ground. This node undergoes a forced plunging and pitching harmonic motion.
The plunging reduced frequency is 0.5, whereas the pitching reduced 
frequency is 0.8; the amplitudes are respectively 0.1 m and 1 deg.
An aerodynimic body is associated to node 2. 

RESULTS COMPARISON

The frequency domain Theodorsen theory is solved (externally to MBDyn) to
compute the aerodynamic forces and moments associated with the very same
harmonic plunging and pitching motion imposed to the node 2 and the obtained
results are saved in the "TheodorsenForces*.txt" files. These forces and
moments are applied to the node 1. 

So, it is possible to compare the results of the MBDyn implementation
of the Theodorsen theory with the results obtained solving the forces
directly in the frequency domain simply looking at the reaction forces
on the two joints used respectively to clamp the node 1 (joint 1) and to
impose the movement of node 2 (joint 2).

FILES:

The three models differ because of the position of the pitching axis:

- ridiss0: in this model the pitch axis is placed at the mid-chord point
           (a=0 in the Theodorsen theory)

- rigidss05: in this model the pitch axis is placed at 3/4 chord
           (a=0.5 in the Theodorsen theory)

- rigidssm05: in this model the pitch axis is placed at 1/4 chord
           (a=-0.5 in the Theodorsen theory)

The corresponding time histories of the Theodersen forces are respectively
collected in the files:

- TheodorsenForces_a0.txt

- TheodorsenForces_a05.txt

- TheodorsenForces_am05.txt

APPENDIX

In order to select the chordwise position of the pitching axis it is necessary
modify the "surface_aerodynamic_center" and the "surface_b_c_point" on 
the aerodynamic body. In practice it is necessary to move the aerodynamic surface
with respect to the node because actually the pitch axis is always collocated
on the node.
